Monthly report January 2024 (#1265)
input-output-hk/hydra: docs/monthly/2024-01-monthly.md

### Hydra Explorer
To measure the progress and success of Hydra, we require tools that provide insights into its usage. For this purpose, we have initiated work on [#696](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra/issues/696) to enable anyone tracking Hydra heads across the whole life-cycle and observe the growth of the Hydra ecosystem.

In this initial phase, we have implemented a basic backend service [#1235](https://github.com/input-output-hk/hydra/pull/1235) that can track all heads on-chain within a devnet network. This service establishes a baseline and utilizes the `hydra-chain-observer` package, exposing a REST API for querying and retrieving information about all observed heads and their current states.

## Community update

TapTools [published a
summary](https://medium.com/tap-in-with-taptools/input-output-releases-hydra-update-97b6139d1c59)
of progress on the project over the last 2 months, which serves as a great
addition to our updates above - go read it!

> Besides the contributed offline mode mentioned above, Sundealabs is also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the contributed offline mode mentioned above, Sundae Labs is also
```

MLabs. We have not yet re-engaged in a regular exchange, but we expect to
support them with features as needed as they kick of this work.

As we also pointed out in the review session, some of us have been involved in
organizing the first [Cardano Buidler Fest](https://buidl.2024.cardano.org/) -
happening April 23-24 in Toulouse, France. This event will be a prime chance to
connect with the people building (on) Cardano and inspire new ways of
collaboration. At the time of publishing, tickets are already sold out, but we
hope to see many Cardano builders there!

## Conclusion

The monthly review meeting for January 2024 was held on 2024-01-19 via Google
Meet with these [slides][slides] and the [recording][recording].

This month we could demonstrate some features on Hydra and Mithril, but also saw
a great demo about using zero-knowledge cryptography in a Hydra head on the case
of a mastermind game; created by Jose and his team from Modulo-Pi.

Besides giving the usual status and roadmap updates on both Hydra and Mithril,
we had several interested community members join us and discuss their use case
ideas. One of them was Tudor and his idea of supply chain tracking of Moldavian

> wine - curently running as a Catalyst proposal in Fund 11 - aiming ot utilize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wine - curently running as a Catalyst proposal in Fund 11 - aiming to utilize
```
